Briefly summarize one of the projects (or multiple closely related projects) that you have worked on. Describe your process of thinking through the steps you took in working on the project.

EYE_ON_U: It is Image Identification based Monitoring Algorithm powered by Machine Learning. Instead of Capturing all the empty frames (like CCTVs do) we capture the frame only when a person is detected in the frame. Instead of capturing the high-quality video we capture the frame of the people who are unrecognized or unauthorized. The frames are stored with a smart naming convention (which itself is informative about the details of the image). We can synchronize the frames captured to user accessible cloud storage services like google drive where user can monitor and manage the captured frames from anywhere provided, he is on the internet.
 
This algorithm we reduce the cost in terms of storage (as hard disks are ruled out) and in terms of money as well. The Applications extend to Ticket Counters in railways or any other transportation department, segregation of authorized and unauthorized persons, attendance system, Banking, security purposed.


Why do you want to apply for MSRI RF program? If you wish, you may also highlight specific projects or researchers whose work interest you.

I want resources and more closure to develop and work on one of my ideas of shifting the whole computational power to cloud so that  multiple devices which couldn't hold such power have access to it provided they are on the internet. we can also transfer the computational power into products which function similar to routers, providing computational power not broadband service.

Imagine having a ram which could be shared among all the devices which can access it without being physically connected.


What, if any, are your career goals for the future? Describe a problem that you feel needs attention, and what do you see as the broad directions to approaching it.

I want to work and establish myself in the field of Applied Machine Learning, and Cloud implicitly Because, I think there is a lot of potential in these fields and a lot to explore and also witness new unique game changing revolutionary applications of these fields.

I think a lot of potential minds are ending up getting their careers slayed just because they do not have right direction, resources, utils, exposure. I think there should be a platform powered by machine learning, AI which is intelligent enough  guide and direct students based on their interest (instead of just letting them on a leap of faith), and wealthy enough to provide resources where the students get their hands dirty. The approach to this problem can be a cloud platform serving all the following needs with the data of the students and their way of using the platform for the future improvements that can be made to the platform.
